---
layout: post
title: My father
---

From around the age of 12 until I moved out to go to graduate school, I lived with my family in a house outside of Conway, Arkansas. Though our address and phone number were in Conway, for purposes of school and city water, our address was attached to Vilonia, Arkansas, a very small town to the east of Conway. This combination felt very tragic to me in my teenage years as, 1) it was a long-distance call (yes, that used to be a thing) to get in touch with most of my friends, and 2) Vilonia often had problems with their water supply.

My father John Kingan was an animal nutritionist and worked as an assistant manager for a feed company called Mountaire in North Little Rock. My mother Barbara Kingan was a registered nurse and worked for Baptist Hospital in Little Rock.

One Saturday morning while I was watching cartoons my father came in and said, "Bob, get dressed and get in the car." This wasn't unusual; sometimes it meant he wanted my help with a DIY project and we needed to make a trip to the hardware store, sometimes it meant he wanted something from the grocery store. This time, however, it was something very different.

We drove to Little Rock down the freeway, and made our way to a feed mill - not the one where my father worked, but one owned by a man named [Henry Niemeyer](https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/145138551/henry-holmes-niemeyer). In the side of this feed store was a small shop with a sign that said simply, "The Computer Store".

As it turned out, my father and Mr. Neimeyer were old friends and knew each other from working together in the midwest. My father later told me that Mr. Neimeyer had impressed everyone in a class on determining least-cost mixtures for feed by solving the problems faster in his head than anyone else could using computers.

I don't know if The Computer Store ever did much business, but I will always remember seeing some of the earliest personal computers there - the IMSAI 8080, the Altair 8800, and others. It was one of the first events that got me interested in computers.

My father wasn't eager to try out some of these early, kit-based computers, but in 1978, the year after Radio Shack introduced its TRS-80 personal computer, we bought one. I couldn't wait to get home after school and try out different things. Of course, at my age those things would often be just typing in BASIC code for programs I found in _BASIC Computer Games_ or in _80 Micro_ magazine, but I also made a lot of programs of my own. When we covered a type of function in one of my math classes, or really anything that could be visualized, I made sure to run home and write programs to display the new thing on my TRS-80 (at least as well as its 128 x 48 graphics resolution would allow). One of my proudest days was when I learned about polar coordinates and made all kinds of chunky Spirograph-style images.

Later on, my father gave me my first genuine programming assignment. One of his responsibilities at Mountaire was taking inventory of all of their feed ingredients. That meant riding a rickety elevator up to a metal walkway that extended out over the bins, where he would lower a weight attached to the end of a long measuring tape down into each bin, measuring the distance down to the surface of the contents of the bin. I stood behind him, sometimes shivering in the cold, writing down the numbers he called out on a clipboard.

The problem was translating those "empty feet down" numbers into pounds, factoring in the shape of the bin. Most of the bins were either round or rectangular in shape, but they generally had a cone shape at the bottom to allow material to slide down into a conveyor, and of course the cone didn't come to a complete point - there was a "frustrum", or some volume removed because of the flat bottom of the bin. I translated all of these shapes into formulae, wrote BASIC code to print out volumes and pounds of ingredients with all of the different densities of material, and then, because we didn't yet have a printer, carefully copied numbers off of the screen onto legal pads for my father to use in his inventory. Our biggest challenge was a tank that held molasses - it was cylindrical in shape, but the cylinder was sitting on its _side_. My father ended up contacting the tank manufacturer to get a table for that one - but a few years later when I was learning to compute volumes of solids in calculus, I promise you there was no more motivated student in the class than me!

I have my father to credit for my interest in computers. He didn't know much about computers himself, but he had the vision to see that a revolution was getting underway, and I'm grateful for that day when he said, "Bob, get dressed and get in the car."
